Segment analysis can be applied to general feature usage metrics.
In this section, we'll discuss how applying segment level analysis to feature
level metrics can reveal differences in feature usage among users segment groups.
As with final analysis,
segmentation can be applied to feature usage metrics.
Segmentation, a feature usage data shows whether a feature is being
adopted at the same rate and used in the same manner by different types of users.
Different patterns of feature adoption might reflect a feature
that only appeals to a particular type of customer use case.
Differences in feature used among segment groups
can lead to a realization that a features benefits,
need to be made more appealing to the under using segment group.
An example of how segmentation can be important
is if we were to segment the usage of a feature by device type.
The overall metrics might tell us that 60 percent of customers use the feature,
but segmenting that data could show 80 percent of
mobile users and only 20 percent of desktop users use the feature.
Since the usage is not the same across device types,
there could be something about how the feature works
that isn't appealing to desktop users.
A difference between the segment groups means product managers might want to
research and run tests to understand why such a division is occurring.
It is also worth noting that feature usage itself can be a behavioral segment.
KPIs from customers that use a feature can be compared to those that don't,
or customers that use a feature with
a certain frequency can be compared to those that use the feature less frequently.
For example, imagine comparing the average retention of
users who favorite items to those who don't favorite items.
If a user who favorites items uses the app for an average of four weeks,
but users who don't favorite items use the app for only an average of two weeks,
this might be a sign that the favoriting feature helps user retention.
Of course, correlation is not causation.
It is just as likely that highly engaged users who would already have been
retained for longer are also the users that make use of the favoriting feature.
Knowing this difference between segments simply provides
the launching point for further user research and analysis,
as part of the cycle of iterative product design.